
    //
        exam ext paper 
            s4!
            http://users.ece.cmu.edu/~dawnsong/papers/sig-gen-oakland06.pdf
                *A vulnerability signature matches all exploits of a given vulnerability
                A vulnerability signature is a representation (e.g., a regular
                expression) of the vulnerability language

                A vulnerability is a type of bug that can be used by an
                attacker to alter the intended operation of the software in a
                malicious way

                An exploit is an actual input that triggers a
                software vulnerability

                One of the most popular and effective exploit defense mechanisms is signature-based input
                filtering

                Thus, any improvements in signature generation will likely have
                widespread impact.

                We need automatic signature generation techniques
                because manual signature generation is slow and error
                prone.

                worm outbreak

                Automatic
                techniques have the potential to be more accurate than manual efforts because vulnerabilities tend to be complex and
                require intricate knowledge of details such as realizable program paths and corner conditions.

                the complexities of a vulnerability 

                ymorphic exploit variants that can trigger a software vulnerabil

                an
                exploit could use different assembly instructions that have
                the same effect

                the vulnerability uncovered by a new exploit attack instead of analyzing the exploit

                At a high level, our main contribution
                is a new class of signature

                an unsafe execution state

                satisfy a
                vulnerability condition in the program.

        课程场景：
            航天项目，要求软件系统高度可靠
            手术机器人
            Software Developer at NASA
                The emphasis is always "get things done as fast as possible." Because of this, I        work mainly in very high-level languages like Python.
                Unfortunately, the rushed environment means considerations like rigorous testing
                    software documentation, software packaging and distribution
                    end up getting roped in to non-programming tasks
                    If you hate things like documenting requirements or writing design documents and only love those moments writing code, you would love my job.
                you will have to outline requirements and write design documents beforehand, and you    will occasionally have QA people breathing down your neck.
                it is a very conspicuous target, and hackers like to practice hacking into NASA         networks before trying to compromise Department of Defense networks
                That said, work at NASA feels much more meaningful than a lot of the private-sector     opportunities that I knew about when I was graduating
                You're contributing to basic scientific research, not corporate profits. And you'll     always have interesting stories to tell your friends, like meeting astronauts, etc
                 Mission critical means something very different, and very serious, at NASA.
            spacex
                enabling human life on Mars.
                SpaceX is like Special Forces
                MANAGER, SOFTWARE ENGINEERING (FLIGHT SOFTWARE)
                    ground and vehicle software
                    service our future needs for Mars such as Starship
                    Manage and track multiple priorities while maintaining a focus towards common       project goals
                    Develop highly reliable and available software systems
                    Develop prototypes to prove out key design concepts and quantify technical          constraints
                    delivering robust and scalable software applications
                    Experience hiring, conducting performance reviews, and regular 1v1 meetings with    direct reports
                    Excellent written and verbal communication skills
                    Design and implement fault detection and mitigation in software
                    Working knowledge of control theory
                    Experience designing fault tolerant software
                    Thorough knowledge of computer architecture and networks
                    Strong skills in debugging, performance optimization and unit testing
        some opensource systems with need of high availability or scientific computing cases 
            https://github.com/handong1979/orbitdynamics
    ppt-1
        linux DEFECTS IDENTIFIED VS DEFECT FIXED
        http://go.coverity.com/rs/157-LQW-289/images/2014-Coverity-Scan-Report.pdf
        We need to know the kind of software faults pattern 
        classify the kind of software faults of existing programs
    ppt-2
        equivalence class partitioning (ECP) partation testing 
            divides the input data of a software unit into partitions of equivalent data from which     test cases can be derived.
            test cases are designed to cover each partition at least once
            An advantage of this approach is reduction in the time required for testing software due    to lesser number of test cases.
            This technique tries to define test cases that uncover classes of errors
            The equivalence partitions are usually derived from the requirements specification for      input attributes that influence the processing of the test object
            improve the likelihood that we test corner cases
        diff. random testing fuzzing 
            They both seem to make use of random input
            random testing 
                increase coverage or to find out new/unexpected information
            fuzzing 
                *不只是随机了，是不是那个数据类型都不一定
                Fuzz(y) testing is about sending complete rubbish
                *The data is not necessarily random - it's just meaningless to the software.
                does not necessarily use random inputs,may smart, or coverage guided
                a quality assurance technique used to discover coding 
                    errors and security loopholes in software
                *symbolic execution is just "more sophisticated fuzzing."
                (Dynamic) symbolic execution is sometimes called whitebox fuzzing
                *3types of fuzzing:
                    Blackbox fuzzing: doesn't require any information about the system 
                        under test (SUT).
                    Whitebox fuzzing: require all the information about the SUT
                    Greybox fuzzing: require to know a little information
                The current state-of-the-art is hybrid fuzzing, combining both greybox and whitebox
                The idea is to use greybox fuzzer as global search to quickly sample the state space
            关系：
                测试技术可以一样一样来，一个比一个覆盖率更广，测试出来fault更多
        coverage
            Statement Coverage
                the  test case  is executed in such a way that every statement  of the code  is 
                    executed at least once      
            branches coverage
                every branch (decision) taken each way, true and false.
                making sure that no branch leads to abnormal behavior of the application.
            path coverage
                All possible control paths taken, including all loop paths taken zero, once, 
                    and multiple (ideally, maximum) items in path coverage technique


    ppt-3
        布尔可满足性问题
            是否存在一组变量赋值，使問題为可满足
            布尔可滿足性問題（Boolean satisfiability problem；SAT)
            第一个被证明屬於NP完全的问题
            对于一个确定的逻辑电路，是否存在一种输入使得输出为真?
            Propositional logic
        symbolic execution
            Analysis	of	programs	with	unspecified	inputs
            “Execute”	a	program	on	symbolic	inputs	
            Symbolic	states	represents	sets	of	concrete	 states
            Check path condition satisfiability – explore only  feasible paths
            https://www.st.cs.uni-saarland.de/edu/automatedtestingverification12/slides/11-DynamicSymbolicExecution.pdf
            Use	a off-the-shelf	constraint solver to solve path	conditions
            SMT-Solver	/	SAT-Solver
            https://github.com/msoos/cryptominisat
                later coding 
            get a symbloic result, not the real result
            Efficiently	traverse all	execution	paths	one	by	 one	to	detect	
            
            Automatic Generation of High-Coverage Tests
            gen. test cases....
        KLEE    
            KLEE is a symbolic virtual machine built on top of the LLVM compiler infrastructure, and available under the UIUC open source license.
            http://klee.github.io/tutorials/testing-function/
                later coding
             	 	
    ppt-4
    ppt-5
        we are going to detect 
            bug/crash/misbehaviour/deviant behavior.....
        Cryptanalysis/ Cryptographic attacks
            circumventing the security of a cryptographic system by finding a weakness in a code, cipher, cryptographic protocol or key management scheme
            ...
        SSL/TLS在协议设计方面，存在一些弱点，可以被利用。
            我们首先简单介绍CBC加密模式的工作原理。然后介绍基于CBC padding的相关攻击，
            在SSL协议较早的版本中，大量使用CBC分组加密的模式对数据加密，如图2.1所示，加密解密过程都是分块进行
            在实际应用中，当明文最后一块内容不足时，会进行填充。根据填充的内容，    
                Serge Vaudenay在[1]中引入了padding attack
            解密完成之后通常会检查是否符合规则，如果不符合，则会抛出Padding error异常，提示填充不正确
            攻击就会变得高效很多。如lucky thirteen，POODLE attack 等都利用了padding内容的特性来提高攻击的效率
            攻击者作为中间人拦截TLS数据包，并对数据包进行篡改，由于传输给服务器的数据包具有
                特殊的排列方式，其中的一个包头域含有13字节，所以命名为“幸运 13”。
            TLS协议会将错误的填充在MAC检测时当作零字节的填充，这个过程比正常协议解密的过程要短很多，产生了一个时间差
            这种利用时间的侧信道攻击在实际攻击中有广泛的应用，具有一定程度的威胁性。
            Daniel Bleichenbacher在[7]中提出了新的攻击(Bleichenbacher attack)。基于RSA的SSL密码套件方式，
                利用PKCS#1的标准格式在可接受的时间内解密预主密钥内容
        CBC分组加密
        TLS attacker 
            a two-stage fuzzing approach to evaluate TLS server behavior
            automatically searches for cryptographic failures and boundary violation vulnerabilities
            find unusual
                padding oracle vulnerabilities and overflows/overreads in
                widely used TLS libraries
                including OpenSSL, Botan, and MatrixSSL.
            to create Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) a
            Its complexity led to various designs as well as implementation 
                failures in various attack scenarios.
            The large number of recent attacks has motivated researchers to provide further security analyses of TLS\
            they have also developed tools for sending protocol messages in an arbitrary order
                (for random testing )
                however, he cannot execute dynamic field modifications given precomputed values in TLS message flows
                that means, we can not do dynamic fuzzing 
            the goal is to extend the test coverage of existing TLS libraries
            necessary to develop a new TLS testing framework – TLS-Attacker
            (design better TLS protocols)
            arbitrary TLS protocol flows
            TLS libraries suffer from severe security vulnerabilities, how to improve that?
            Novel fuzzing approach for TLS
            contributions 
                evaluation method 
                    a two-stage fuzzing approach for the evaluation of TLS servers  
                    Our approach allows us to find different vulnerabilities in widely..
                the concept 'Modifiable variables'
                    it is a concept which is high flexibility for the implementation 
                    of arbitrary cryptographic protocols
            we do not attempt to claim TLS-Attacker is complete or that it detects every vulnerability
            such a tool is necessary for the development of secure TLS libraries
            TLS-Attacker is currently being integrated into Botan and MatrixSSL test suites     
            enhanced evaluation of TLS implementations
    ppt-6
        PostgreSQL is a powerful, open source object-relational database system 
        SQL Slammer[a] is a 2003 computer worm that caused a denial of service on some 
            Internet hosts and dramatically slowed down general Internet traffic. 
            scanned 90% of computers less than 10 min 
            The program exploited a buffer overflow bug in Microsoft's SQL Server
            the MS02-039 patch had been released six months earlier
            It is a small piece of code that does little other than generate random IP 
                addresses and send itself out to those addresses
            If a selected address happens to belong to a host that is running an unpatched copy 
                of Microsoft SQL Server Resolution Service listening on UDP port 1434
            Home PCs are generally not vulnerable to this worm unless they have MSDE installed
            it only stays in memory, and it is easy to remove
        Valgrind 
            is an instrumentation framework for building dynamic analysis tools. 
                There are Valgrind tools that can automatically detect many memory management 
                and threading bugs
    ppt-7
        to be robust, means provide acceptable quality of service
        tools that can inject simulated
            faults to verify a system’s fault detection and recovery methods
        and describe a prototype we have developed that meets these criteria
        This tool, FIG, is capable of selectively introducing and logging errors 
            at the application/library boundary on a running system
        Our expectation is that FIG will be used for software development and verification
        develop software with a higher degree of failure recoverability
        Fault injection, recovery-oriented computing
        glibc是linux下面c标准库的实现，即GNU C Library
        The highly complex and dynamic nature
        build adaptive, self-managing capabilities into next-generation 
            business network and Internet applications 
        detect and recover quickly from irregularities in its operating environment.
        Recovery-Oriented Computing [1], an ongoing project at the University of 
            California, Berkeley
        These tools can then be used to evaluate the effectiveness and integrity of recovery
            methods.
        fault injection is notably absent in the development process of many Internet applications
        As a result, the recovery methods in these programs, 
            if they exist at all, often go to market untested.
        
        
    ppt-8
        omitted state needs to be recomputed on recovery
        Error Checking and Correcting
        development approaches
            there are differences to take note of, which we’ll look at below.
            a comparison and a guide to when you should use which.
            special development approaches to web development.
            we are facing a constantly changing environment
            find themselves in a constantly changing and fluctuating environment
            A lot of people only want to consume the web and are oblivious to the technologies behind it
            Graceful degradation and progressive enhancement in a nutshell
            graceful degradation 
                Providing an alternative version of your functionality
                graceful degradation is the practice of building your web 
                    functionality so that it provides a certain level of user
                    experience in more modern browsers, but it will also degrade 
                    gracefully to a lower level of user in experience in older 
                    browsers
            progressive enhancement
                Progressive enhancement Starting with a baseline of usable functionality
                then increasing the richness of the user experience step by step by testing 
                    for support for enhancements before applying them
                Progressive enhancement is similar, but it does things the other way round

    ppt-9
        antipattern
            在实践中明显出现但又低效或是有待优化的设计模式
            是用来解决问题的带有共同性的不良方法
            它们已经经过研究并分类，以防止日后重蹈覆辙，并能在研发尚未投产的系统时辨认出来。
            灵感来自于GoF的《设计模式》一书
            血刃（Bleeding edge，刀锋）：采用一些未经测试和/或尚不稳定的前沿技术来运营，从而
                导致成本超支、表现/性能不佳，和/或交付延期
            摇钱树（cash cow）：盈利的老产品通常会导致对新产品的自负
            +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
            海鸥式管理（Seagull management）：只有当出现问题的时候管理人员才会跟雇员进行接触
                和互动的管理模式。典型的场景就是，海鸥式的管理人员“飞”过来，嘁嘁喳喳，是人都批评一通，尔后“飞”走了！
            厂商陷阱（Vendor lock-in，供应商套牢，供应商陷阱，厂商泥潭）：使一个系统过于依赖
                于外部所提供的组件/部件。
            团队思维（Groupthink）：在团队思维中，团队成员避免提出在一致观点之外的思维
            障眼法（Smoke and mirrors）：展示还没实现的功能，就像它们已经实现了一样
            九九定律（Ninety-ninety rule）：当项目“几近完成”时，低估完成项目所需时间的倾向。
            拜物编程（Cargo cult programming）：由于对模式的盲目崇拜，在不理解的情况下就使用
                模式和方法，企图得到好的结果
            自我复制（Repeating yourself）：通过不断复制已有代码的模式或代码段进行编码；而非
                采用once and only once（抽取原则）
            拷贝粘贴编程（Copy and paste programming）：拷贝（然后修改）现有的代码而不是
                构造通用的解决方案
        chaos monkey 
            Netflix 刚刚开源了他们那被人惦记好一阵子的“Chaos Monkey”，这是一套用来故意把服务器搞下线的软件，可以测试云环境的恢复能力。
            Netflix 专门开发的一系列捣乱工具
            避免失败的最好办法是经常失败”, 反映Netflix 通过主动破坏自身环境来发现弱点的做法
            这猴子的工作是随机杀掉架构中的运行实例和服务。如果我们不经常检验自己战胜挫折的能力，那么在最需要的时候，遇到意料之外的故障事件的时候，能力很可能使不出来
            Netflix 声称软件可以成功运行在在AWS 以外的云上，主要给用户检测自身环境中的失败条件
            用户可以决定 Chaos Monkey 对新应用的攻击强度。
            但一般用户不需要完全照学，可以养一只温顺点的猴子，叫它只跟特定的应用过不去，还可以把彻底搞死实例的几率设得低一些。
            test the resiliency of a cloud environment.
    ppt-10
    ppt-11
    ppt-12
    ppt-13
    ppt-14
    